So now on to basic principles of MR physics.
First, what does MRI stands for?
It stands for magnetic resonance imaging,
which hints at the basic physical principle that
drives in MRI scanner, magnetic resonance.
MRI imaging is a quite complex field that stretches the boundaries of human knowledge by
spanning multiple research fields from
mechanical engineering to quantum physics to Computer Science.
By no means, we're going to cover,
it's all in this lesson.
So we will touch upon some of the key concepts of the field,
such as gradient fields,
reconstruction, pulse sequences, and k-space.
Again, it is quite important to have the basic idea of
this things so that you understand where
the pixels in your 3D medical images are coming from.
If this term sound familiar,
you may want to skip this portion of the lesson.
First, MRI scanners operate using the principles of magnetic resonance by
inducing large magnetic fields and measuring electrical currents that arise from that.
Therefore, they emit no ionizing radiation and thus,
there is less risk of exposure for the patients that get scanned.
Second, there are no large moving parts inside
the MRI scanners other than the bed with the patient.
Lastly, there is way more flexibility in how
MRI scanners operate due to the number of
ways in which the magnetic field can be constructed.
So there are many more imaging scan types possible with superior soft tissue contrast,
and we will get into those a little bit later in this lesson.